<!-- Generated by documentation.js. Update this documentation by updating the source code. -->

## init

This function helps to initialize MySql Client
This function should be called before calling any other functions in this library

Best practice is to `import @aicore/libcommonutils` and call `getMySqlConfigs()` api to read values from of configs
from environment variables.

### Parameters

*   `config` **[Object][1]** config to configure MySQL

    *   `config.host` **[string][2]** mysql database hostname
    *   `config.port` **[string][2]** port number of mysql db
    *   `config.database` **[string][2]** name of database to connect
    *   `config.user` **[string][2]** username of database
    *   `config.password` **[string][2]** password of database username

### Examples

Sample config

```javascript
const config = {
   "host": "localhost",
   "port": "3306",
   "database": "testdb",
   "user" : "root",
   "password": "1234"
 };
```

Sample initialization code

```javascript
// set  following  environment variables to access database securely
// set MY_SQL_SERVER for mysql server
// set MY_SQL_SERVER_PORT to set server port
// set MY_SQL_SERVER_DB to specify database where database operations are conducted
// set MY_SQL_USER to specify database user
// set MY_SQL_PASSWORD to set mysql password

import {getMySqlConfigs} from "@aicore/libcommonutils";

const configs = getMySqlConfigs();
init(configs)
```

Returns **[boolean][3]** true if connection is successful false otherwise*

## close

This function helps to close the database connection

Returns **void** 

## createTable

This function helps to create a  table in database
we have simplified our database schema, for us, our database has only two columns

1.  `primary key` column, which is a varchar(255)
2.  `JSON` column, which stores values corresponding to the primary key as `JSON`

using this approach will simplify our database design by delegating the handling of the semantics of
data to the application.To speed up any query, we have provided an option to add a secondary index
for JSON fields using `createIndexForJsonField` api.

### Parameters

*   `tableName` **[string][2]** name of table to create
*   `nameOfPrimaryKey` **[string][2]** name of primary key
*   `nameOfJsonColumn` **[string][2]** name of JsonColumn

### Examples

How to use this function?

```javascript
import {getMySqlConfigs} from "@aicore/libcommonutils";

const configs = getMySqlConfigs();
init(configs)
const tableName = 'customer';
const nameOfPrimaryKey = 'name';
const nameOfJsonColumn = 'details';
try {
  await createTable(tableName, nameOfPrimaryKey, nameOfJsonColumn);
} catch(e){
    console.error(JSON.stringify(e));
}
```

Returns **[Promise][4]** returns a `Promise` await on `Promise` to get status of `createTable`
`on success` await will return `true`. `on failure` await will throw an `exception`.

## put

It takes a table name, a primary key, a json column name, and a json value, and inserts the json value into the json
column. If the primary key already exists, it updates the json column with the new value

### Parameters

*   `tableName` **[string][2]** The name of the table in which you want to store the data.
*   `nameOfPrimaryKey` **[string][2]** The name of the primary key column in the table.
*   `primaryKey` **[string][2]** The primary key of the table.
*   `nameOfJsonColumn` **[string][2]** The name of the column in which you want to store the JSON string.
*   `valueForJsonColumn` **[string][2]** The JSON string that you want to store in the database.

### Examples

Sample code

```javascript
try {
      const primaryKey = 'bob';
      const valueOfJson = {
          'lastName': 'Alice',
          'Age': 100,
          'active': true
      };
      await put('hello', nameOfPrimaryKey, primaryKey, nameOfJsonColumn, valueOfJson);
  } catch (e) {
      console.error(JSON.stringify(e));
 }
```

Returns **[Promise][4]** A promise on resolving the promise will return true it put is successful throws an exception
otherwise

## deleteKey

It deletes a row from the database based on the primary key

### Parameters

*   `tableName` **[string][2]** The name of the table in which the key is to be deleted.
*   `nameOfPrimaryKey` **[string][2]** The name of the primary key in the table.
*   `primaryKey` **[string][2]** The primary key of the row you want to delete.

### Examples

Sample code

```javascript
const tableName = 'customer';
const nameOfPrimaryKey = 'name';
const primaryKey = 'bob';
try {
   await deleteKey(tableName, nameOfPrimaryKey, primaryKey);
} catch(e) {
   console.error(JSON.stringify(e));
}
```

Returns **any** A promise `resolve` promise to get status of delete. promise will resolve to true
for success and  throws an exception for failure.

## get

It takes in a table name, a primary key name, a primary key value, and a json column name, and returns a promise that
resolves to the json column value

### Parameters

*   `tableName`  The name of the table in which the data is stored.
*   `nameOfPrimaryKey`  The name of the primary key column in the table.
*   `primaryKey`  The primary key of the row you want to get.
*   `nameOfJsonColumn`  The name of the column in the table that contains the JSON data.

Returns **any** A promise

## getFromNonIndex

It takes a table name, a column name, and a query object, and returns a promise that resolves to the result of a scan of
the table

### Parameters

*   `tableName`  The name of the table you want to query.
*   `nameOfJsonColumn`  The name of the column that contains the JSON data.
*   `queryObject`  This is the object that you want to query.

Returns **any** A promise

## deleteTable

It deletes a table from the database

### Parameters

*   `tableName`  The name of the table to be deleted.

Returns **any** A promise that will resolve to true if the table is deleted, or reject with an error if the table is not
deleted.

## createIndexForJsonField

It creates a new column in the table for the JSON field and then creates an index on that column

### Parameters

*   `tableName`  The name of the table in which you want to create the index.
*   `nameOfJsonColumn`  The name of the JSON column in the table.
*   `jsonField`  The name of the field in the JSON object that you want to index.
*   `dataTypeOfNewColumn`  This is the data type of the new column that will be created.
*   `isUnique`  If true, the index will be unique.

Returns **any** A promise

## getFromIndex

It takes a table name, a column name, and a query object, and returns a promise that resolves to an array of objects

### Parameters

*   `tableName`  The name of the table in which the data is stored.
*   `nameOfJsonColumn`  The name of the column in the table that contains the JSON data.
*   `queryObject`  This is the object that you want to search for.

Returns **any** A promise

[1]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Object

[2]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/String

[3]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Boolean

[4]: https://developer.mozilla.org/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Global_Objects/Promise
